CASMTRIAGE-3668: add common error flags (#2008)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/kubernetes/Troubleshoot_Intermittent_503s.md

# Troubleshoot Intermittent HTTP 503 Code Failures

There are cases where API calls or `cray` command invocations will fail (sometimes intermittently) with an HTTP 503 error code.
In the event that this occurs, take the following actions according to specific error codes found in the pod or Envoy container
log may be useful to remediate the issue. The Envoy container is typically named `istio-proxy`, it runs as a sidecar for Pods
that are part of the Istio mesh. For these pods with sidecar, the logs can be viewed by running a command like:

```bash
ncn-m# kubectl logs <podname> -n <namespace> -c istio-proxy | grep 503
```

> 1. `UF,URX` code with TLS error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-m#`) Troubleshoot a `UF,URX` code with a TLS error.
```

   The logs include errors similar to the following:

   ```text
   [2022-05-10T16:27:29.232Z] "POST /apis/hbtd/hmi/v1/heartbeat HTTP/2" 503 UF,URX "-" "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS"
   ```

   Envoy container can occasionally get into this state when NCNs are being rebooted or upgraded, as well as when many deployments
   are being created. When this happens, delete the pod if it is a single replica or perform a rolling restart of the Deployment
   or StatefulSet if it is part of a multiple replica exhibiting the issue, like:

   ```bash
   ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n istio-system deployment istio-ingressgateway
   ```

   Once the roll out is complete, the HTTP 503 message should clear.

1. `UAEX` code:

   The logs include errors similar to the following:

   ```text
   [2022-06-24T14:16:27.229Z] "POST /apis/hbtd/hmi/v1/heartbeat HTTP/2" 503 UAEX "-" 131 0 30 - "10.34.0.0" "-" "1797b0d3-56f0-4674-8cf2-a8a61f9adaea" "api-gw-service-nmn.local" "-" - - 10.40.0.29:443 10.34.0.0:15995 api-gw-service-nmn.local -
   ```

>    This error code typically indicates an issue with the authorization service (i.e., spire). When this happens, perform a rolling restart of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This error code typically indicates an issue with the authorization service (for example, Spire). When this happens, perform a rolling restart of the following:
```

   ```bash

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire statefulset spire-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire statefulset spire-server
```

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire daemonset spire-agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire daemonset spire-agent
```

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-jwks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-jwks
```

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-postgres

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-postgres
```

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-postgres-pooler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire deployment spire-postgres-pooler
```

>    ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire daemonset request-ncn-join-token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn-m# kubectl rollout restart -n spire daemonset request-ncn-join-token
```
```suggestion
   kubectl rollout restart -n spire daemonset request-ncn-join-token
```

   ```

   Once the roll out is complete, the HTTP 503 message should clear.

1. Other error codes:

   Although `UF,URX` and `UAEX` codes are most common, various other issues such as networking or application errors can cause different errors in
   the pod or sidecar logs. Please refer to <https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/observability/access_log/usage#> for a list of

>    possible Envoy response flags. Generally you may try rolling restart of the application itself to see if it clears the error; otherwise, you need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   possible Envoy response flags. In general, running a rolling restart of the application itself to see if it clears the error is a good practice; otherwise,
```

In the event that this occurs, attempt to remediate the issue by taking the following actions, according to specific error codes
found in the pod or Envoy container log. 

(`ncn-mw#`) The Envoy container is typically named `istio-proxy`, and it runs as a sidecar for pods that are part of the Istio mesh.
For pods with this sidecar, the logs can be viewed by running a command similar to the following:

```bash
kubectl logs <podname> -n <namespace> -c istio-proxy | grep 503
```

This page is broken into different sections, based on the errors found in the log.

## `UF,URX` with TLS error

### Symptom (`UF,URX` with TLS error)

```text
[2022-05-10T16:27:29.232Z] "POST /apis/hbtd/hmi/v1/heartbeat HTTP/2" 503 UF,URX "-" "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS"
```

### Description (`UF,URX` with a TLS error)

Envoy container can occasionally get into this state when NCNs are being rebooted or upgraded, as well as when many deployments
are being created.

### Remediation (`UF,URX` with a TLS error)

(`ncn-mw#`) Do a Kubernetes delete or rolling restart:

- If it is a single replica, then delete the pod.

> - If it is part of a multiple replica exhibiting the issue, then perform a rolling restart of the deployment or StatefulSet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If it is part of a multiple replica exhibiting the issue, then perform a rolling restart of the deployment or `StatefulSet`.
```
